General rules
• Your program must not crash under any circumstances (even if it runs out of memory) or terminate unexpectedly.
If this occurs, your project will be considered non-functional and your grade will
be 0.
• You must submit a Makefile that compiles your source files. It must not perform
unnecessary relinking.
• Your Makefile must at least contain the rules:
$(NAME), all, clean, fclean and re.
• Compile your code with c++ and the flags -Wall -Wextra -Werror
• Your code must comply with the C++ 98 standard and should still compile when
adding the flag -std=c++98.
• Make sure to leverage as many C++ features as possible (e.g., choose <cstring>
over <string.h>). You are allowed to use C functions, but always prefer their C++
versions if possible.
• Any external library and Boost libraries are forbidden.

Mandatory part
All functionality must be implemented in C++ 98.
Allowed functions:
execve, pipe, strerror, gai_strerror, errno, dup,
dup2, fork, socketpair, htons, htonl, ntohs, ntohl,
select, poll, epoll (epoll_create, epoll_ctl,
epoll_wait), kqueue (kqueue, kevent), socket,
accept, listen, send, recv, chdir, bind, connect,
getaddrinfo, freeaddrinfo, setsockopt, getsockname,
getprotobyname, fcntl, close, read, write, waitpid,
kill, signal, access, stat, open, opendir, readdir
and closedir.
n/a

An HTTP server in C++ 98

You must write an HTTP server in C++ 98.
Your executable should be executed as follows:
./webserv [configuration file]

Even though poll() is mentioned in the subject and evaluation sheet,
you can use any equivalent function such as select(), kqueue(), or
epoll().


Please read the RFCs defining the HTTP protocol, and perform tests
with telnet and NGINX before starting this project.
Although you are not required to implement the entire RFCs, reading
it will help you develop the required features.
The HTTP 1.0 is suggested as a reference point, but not enforced.

Requirements

• Your program must use a configuration file, provided as an argument on the command line, or available in a default path.
• You cannot execve another web server.
• Your server must remain non-blocking at all times and properly handle client disconnections when necessary.
• It must be non-blocking and use only 1 poll() (or equivalent) for all the I/O
operations between the clients and the server (listen included).
• poll() (or equivalent) must monitor both reading and writing simultaneously.
• You must never do a read or a write operation without going through poll() (or
equivalent).
• Checking the value of errno to adjust the server behaviour is strictly forbidden
after performing a read or write operation.
• You are not required to use poll() (or an equivalent function) for regular disk files;
read() and write() on them do not require readiness notifications.

I/O that can wait for data (sockets, pipes/FIFOs, etc.) must be
non-blocking and driven by a single poll() (or equivalent). Calling
read/recv or write/send on these descriptors without prior readiness
will result in a grade of 0. Regular disk files are exempt.

• When using poll() or any equivalent call, you can use every associated macro or
helper function (e.g., FD_SET for select()).
• A request to your server should never hang indefinitely.
• Your server must be compatible with standard web browsers of your choice.
• NGINX may be used to compare headers and answer behaviours (pay attention to
differences between HTTP versions).
• Your HTTP response status codes must be accurate.
• Your server must have default error pages if none are provided.
• You can’t use fork for anything other than CGI (like PHP, or Python, and so forth).
• You must be able to serve a fully static website.
• Clients must be able to upload files.
• You need at least the GET, POST, and DELETE methods.
• Your server must be able to listen to multiple ports to deliver different content (see
Configuration file).

We deliberately chose to offer only a subset of the HTTP RFC. In this
context, the virtual host feature is considered out of scope. But
you are allowed to implement it if you want.

Configuration file

You can take inspiration from the ’server’ section of the NGINX
configuration file.

In the configuration file, you should be able to:
• Define all the interface:port pairs on which your server will listen to (defining multiple websites served by your program).
• Set up default error pages.
• Set the maximum allowed size for client request bodies.
• Specify rules or configurations on a URL/route (no regex required here), for a
website, among the following:
◦ List of accepted HTTP methods for the route.
◦ HTTP redirection.
◦ Directory where the requested file should be located (e.g., if URL /kapouet
is rooted to /tmp/www, URL /kapouet/pouic/toto/pouet will search for
/tmp/www/pouic/toto/pouet).
◦ Enabling or disabling directory listing.
◦ Default file to serve when the requested resource is a directory.
◦ Uploading files from the clients to the server is authorized, and storage location
is provided.
10
◦ Execution of CGI, based on file extension (for example .php). Here are some
specific remarks regarding CGIs:
∗ Do you wonder what a CGI is?
∗ Have a careful look at the environment variables involved in the web
server-CGI communication. The full request and arguments provided by
the client must be available to the CGI.
∗ Just remember that, for chunked requests, your server needs to un-chunk
them, the CGI will expect EOF as the end of the body.
∗ The same applies to the output of the CGI. If no content_length is
returned from the CGI, EOF will mark the end of the returned data.
∗ The CGI should be run in the correct directory for relative path file access.
∗ Your server should support at least one CGI (php-CGI, Python, and so
forth).
You must provide configuration files and default files to test and demonstrate that
every feature works during the evaluation.
You can have other rules or configuration information in your file (e.g., a server name
for a website if you plan to implement virtual hosts).

If you have a question about a specific behaviour, you can compare
your program’s behaviour with NGINX’s.
We have provided a small tester. Using it is not mandatory if
everything works fine with your browser and tests, but it can help
you find and fix bugs.

Resilience is key.

Your server must remain operational at all times.

Do not test with only one program. Write your tests in a more
suitable language, such as Python or Golang, among others, even
in C or C++ if you prefer.

Readme Requirements
A README.md file must be provided at the root of your Git repository. Its purpose is
to allow anyone unfamiliar with the project (peers, staff, recruiters, etc.) to quickly
understand what the project is about, how to run it, and where to find more information
on the topic.
The README.md must include at least:
• The very first line must be italicized and read: This project has been created as part
of the 42 curriculum by <login1>[, <login2>[, <login3>[...]]].
• A “Description” section that clearly presents the project, including its goal and a
brief overview.
• An “Instructions” section containing any relevant information about compilation,
installation, and/or execution.
• A “Resources” section listing classic references related to the topic (documentation, articles, tutorials, etc.), as well as a description of how AI was used —
specifying for which tasks and which parts of the project.
➠ Additional sections may be required depending on the project (e.g., usage
examples, feature list, technical choices, etc.).

Any required additions will be explicitly listed below.

Your README must be written in English.
